A semi-quantitative metaiodobenzylguanidine (mIBG) scoring method (Curie scoring, CS) was previously examined in the Children's Oncology Group (COG) high risk neuroblastoma trial, COG A3973 (A Randomized Study of Purged vs. Unpurged Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant Following Dose Intensive Induction Therapy for High Risk Neuroblastoma), with a post-induction CS&gt;2 associated with poor event free survival (EFS). The validation of Curie scoring in an independent data set, High Risk Neuroblastoma1/International Society of Pediatric Oncology European Network (SIOPEN/HR-NBL1), is now reported. Methods: A retrospective analysis of mIBG scans obtained from patients that had been prospectively enrolled on SIOPEN/HR-NBL1 was performed. All patients exhibited mIBG avid, International Neuroblastoma Staging System stage 4 neuroblastoma. mIBG scans were evaluated at two time points, diagnosis (n = 345) and post-induction (n = 330), prior to consolidation myeloablative therapy. Scans were evaluated in 10 different anatomic regions, each region scored 0-3 based upon disease extent, with a cumulative Curie score generated. Cut-points for outcome analysis were identified by Youden methodology. Curie scores from patients enrolled on COG A3973 were used for comparison. Results: The optimal cut-point for Curie score at diagnosis was 12 in SIOPEN/HR-NBL1, with a significant outcome difference by Curie score noted [5-year EFS: 43.0 ±5.7 (CS≤12) vs. 21.4 ±3.6% (CS&gt;12), p&lt;0.0001]. The optimal Curie score cut-point post-induction was 2 in SIOPEN/HR-NBL1, with a post-induction Curie score &gt;2 associated with inferior outcome [5-year EFS:39.2 ±4.7% (CS≤2) vs. 16.4 ±4.2% (CS&gt;2), p&lt;0.0001]. The post-induction Curie score maintained independent statistical significance in Cox models, when adjusted for the covariates of age and MYCN (V-Myc Avian Myelocytomatosis Viral Oncogene Neuroblastoma Derived Homolog) gene copy number. Conclusion: The prognostic significance of post-induction Curie scores has now been validated in an independent cohort of patients (SIOPEN/HR-NBL1), with a post-induction Curie score &gt;2 associated with inferior outcome in two independent large, cooperative group trials.