RNA stable isotope probing and high throughput sequencing were used to characterize the active microbiomes of bacteria and fungi colonizing roots and rhizosphere soil of oilseed rape, to identify taxa assimilating plant-derived carbon following 13CO2 labeling. Root- and rhizosphere soil-associated communities of both bacteria and fungi differed from each other and there were highly significant differences between their DNA- and RNA-based community profiles. Verrucomicrobia, Proteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Acidobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes, Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi were the most active bacterial phyla in the rhizosphere soil. Bacteroidetes were more active in roots. The most abundant bacterial genera were well represented in both the 13C- and 12C-RNA fractions, while the fungal taxa were more differentiated. Streptomyces, Rhizobium and Flavobacterium were dominant in roots, whereas Rhodoplanes and Kaistobacter were dominant in rhizosphere soil. Candidatus Nitrososphaera was enriched in 13C in rhizosphere soil. Olpidium and Dendryphion were abundant in the 12C-RNA fraction of roots; Clonostachys was abundant in both roots and rhizosphere soil and heavily 13C enriched. Cryptococcus was dominant in rhizosphere soil and less abundant, but 13C enriched in roots.The patterns of colonization and C-acquisition revealed in this study assist in identifying microbial taxa that may be superior competitors for plant-derived carbon in the rhizosphere of B. napus.IMPORTANCE This microbiome study characterizes the active bacteria and fungi colonizing roots and rhizosphere soil of Brassica napus using high-throughput sequencing and RNA-stable isotope probing. It identifies taxa assimilating plant-derived carbon following 13CO2 labeling and compares these with other, less active groups not incorporating plant assimilate. Brassica napus is an economically and globally important oilseed crop, cultivated for edible oil, biofuel production and phytoextraction of heavy metals, however it is susceptible to several diseases. Identification of the fungal and bacterial species successfully competing for plant-derived carbon, enabling them to colonize the roots and rhizosphere soil of this plant, should enable identification of microorganisms that can be evaluated in more detailed functional studies and ultimately be used to improve plant health and productivity in sustainable agriculture.