Fifty one cyclic Egyptian buffaloes were used to study the hormonal profile and follicular dynamics concurrent with CIDR and insulin modified Ovsync TAI programs and their impacts on the consequent fertility responses. The buffaloes were randomly assigned into 3 ovulation synchronization protocols: Ovsync-alone (n = 13, control) CIDR-sync (n = 20) and Insulin-sync (n = 18). Ovsync-alone protocol consisted of two im injections of 20 μg bueserlin (GnRHa) on Day 0 (GnRH 1) and on Day 9 (GnRH 2) with an im injection of 500 μg of cloprostenol sodium (PGF2 α) on Day 7. The CIDR-sync protocol consisted of the same treatment protocol as in Ovsync in addition to intra-vaginal insertion of CIDR (contains 1.38 gm of progesterone) on Day 0 followed by removal on Day 7. The Insulin-sync protocol consisted of the same treatment protocol as in Ovsync plus 3 sc injections of insulin at a dose of 0.25 i.u/1 kg, on Days 7, 8, and 9. Buffaloes in all groups were inseminated 16 h after GnRH2 by the same inseminator using frozen semen in straws. Blood samples were collected on Days 0, 3, 5 for serum progesterone assay and on Day 9 to measure serum concentrations of estradiol, insulin and IGF-1. Transrectal ultrasonographic scanning of the ovaries was conducted on Days 7, 8 and 9 to record the diameter of the largest follicle. Pregnancy diagnosis was conducted on Day 30 post-TAI by trans-rectal ultrasonographic scanning of the uterus to calculate conception rate. The serum progesterone concentration showed an increase (p &lt; 0.01) in pregnant compared with non-pregnant buffaloes in both Ovsync-alone and Insulin-sync groups, but not in CIDR-sync group (p &gt; 0.05) on Days 3 and 5. The serum estradiol concentration on Day 9 showed an increase (p &lt; 0.01) in pregnant compared with the non-pregnant buffaloes in all of the treated groups. In Insulin-sync and Ovsync-alone groups, the diameter of the largest follicle (LF) was larger (p &lt; 0.01) in pregnant compared with non-pregnant buffaloes, but in CIDR-sync, the diameter of the (LF) was larger (p &lt; 0.01) in non-pregnant compared with pregnant buffaloes. Also, the results showed that the greatest diameter of LF was observed in pregnant buffaloes in Insulin-sync compared with either pregnant or non-pregnant buffaloes in all groups. It is concluded that modified CIDR-sync and Insulin-sync could improve fertility response through modulating hormonal profile and follicular dynamics in buffaloes during low breeding season.