The diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy has been facilitated especially by the use of Doppler ultrasonography. In previous studies the presence of peri-trophoblastic blood flow by Doppler ultrasound and the detection of a low-resistance, high-velocity flow pattern were defined as specific signs for trophoblastic tissue. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Doppler ultrasonography in the prediction of treatment success in tubal pregnancies being treated with single dose conservative methotrexate.STUDY DESIGN: A total of 104 patients with non-ruptured ectopic pregnancy who were hemodynamically stable and eligible for methotrexate treatment were included in the study. The spectral wave form of the mass was classified according to the vascularization density by Power Doppler. It was defined as Grade 1, 2 and 3, respectively. All patients received a single 50mg/m2 dose of systemic methotrexate. Serum β-hCG levels were measured on the 4th and 7th days of treatment. The treatment was considered unsuccessful in patients without a decrease of 15% or more in the serum β-hCG levels between days 0 and 7.RESULTS: Twenty-four patients with grade I vascularity, 11 patients with grade II vascularity and 13 patients with grade III vascularity were referred as Group I, II and III, respectively, according to the degree of adnexal vascularity assessed by Doppler ultrasonography. Overall success rate of MTX treatment was found to be 72.9%. The response rates to systemic MTX treatment in cases with Grade I, II and III ectopic pregnancy mass vascularization were found to be 58.3%, 81.8% and 92.3%, respectively. Comparison of the groups' treatment responses revealed a linear-by-linear correlation with the Chi-square test. Increased vascularization grade of ectopic pregnancy was associated with a higher likelihood of responding to MTX treatment.CONCLUSIONS: Detection of the vascularization grade with Doppler ultrasound could be considered a remarkable parameter in predicting treatment success considering its ease of utilization and low cost.